The Recurring Rainfall Problem


Finding all the test cases for the problem would be a bit tricky for a beginner in programming languages. There were cases where each line could have more than one value separated by spaces, in which case only the first value had to be taken into account. There were also cases, where the value could follow a space, which would be an invalid input. There is also the possibility of using strings or special characters or negative numbers as inputs. It becomes important to account for a number of cases, which a person without programming knowledge would not generally account for, thinking that the user might always provide a valid input. Then comes the problem of dividing by zero, which a person without experience in programming might not anticipate. Functional programming, using data structures and loops comes with experience and a novice programmer will not utilize all these resources to make a program efficient.
Clean first method was chosen in my program along with a list and such a flow structure served my needs with minimal errors in logic. The input was first split to get the first element and the first element was then cast. Casting the parsed input to an integer would not serve my purpose if the input is a float, so the input was cast to a float and finally the mean was cast to an integer if it is a true integer (i.e. float with f.0 values). I also found that using exceptions while casting could help me catch a number of erroneous inputs like string, special characters etc., An additional check for negative numbers was included after an initial test failed, this was unanticipated. After cleaning the input to store only the valid inputs as a list, average was computed based on the count of the valid input. This was much easier using lists which a novice programmer might not be aware of. Functional programming was used to isolate the functions of each step and to minimize errors.
No change was made to the python program after reading the article and after discussion in the lab session as I think I have accounted for all the test cases by the use of exceptions.
